Skip Mode (#755)
cylc/cylc-doc: src/user-guide/running-workflows/workflow-run-modes.rst

.. _workflow-run-modes:

Workflow Run Modes

> ------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==================
```

Cylc can run a workflow without running the real jobs, which may be

> useful when developing workflows. Tasks submitted
> using :ref:`workflow-run-modes.dummy` and
> :ref:`workflow-run-modes.simulation` can be used to understand how different outcomes

Reviewer 2: Sorry if I'm being overly picky, but to my mind tasks don't get "submitted" in simulation mode, because submission is the process of submitting a job to run on the system. I suppose we could spin it that way, but IMO better to avoid even raising the question in user's minds.

```suggestion
useful when developing workflows. Tasks 
in :ref:`workflow-run-modes.dummy` and
:ref:`workflow-run-modes.simulation` can help you to understand how different outcomes
```

Author: If you want to be picky you could say that tasks submit jobs and are not themselves submitted. 

I have accepted this, though I'm not sure I agree. I'd describe skip and simulation jobs as being submitted to the scheduler.

Reviewer 2: > If you want to be picky you could say that tasks submit jobs and are not themselves submitted.

Correct, we shouldn't say that tasks get submitted, just being lazy. They have a submitted state, which means they submitted a job.

> I'd describe skip and simulation jobs as being submitted to the scheduler.

Yeah, that's what I meant by "I suppose we could spin it that way".

But I think it's easy for users to grok if we just say jobs get submitted.

and run lengths will affect the workflow.

To start a workflow in one of these modes:

.. code-block:: console

   $ cylc play --mode=dummy <workflow-id>
   $ cylc play --mode=simulation <workflow-id>

> .. admonition:: Limitations

Reviewer 2: Are these really limitations as such, or just points to be aware of. IMO a limitation is something that you might legitimately expect should work but doesn't.

Author: I don't really care what we call it - and to be fair, I think that the first point is something which does fit your definition of a limitation - superficially one might expect to be able to re-run in live mode.

```suggestion
.. note::
```

Reviewer 2: Fair enough, happy to leave it as a "limitation".

   * Workflow run mode is recorded in the workflow run database. Cylc will not let you
     *restart* a dummy mode workflow in live mode, or vice versa. Instead,
     install a new instance of the workflow and run it from scratch in the new mode.
   * Workflows run in Dummy and Simulation mode do not allow the run mode of
     individual tasks to be overridden by :ref:`task-run-modes.skip`

.. _workflow-run-modes.dummy:

Dummy Mode
----------

**Dummy mode** replaces real jobs with background jobs on the
scheduler host which use ``sleep`` to simulate the run length according to
the settings described for simulation mode.
This avoids :term:`job runner` directives that request compute
resources for real workflow tasks, and it allows any workflow configuration to
be run locally in dummy mode.

> .. admonition:: Limitations

Reviewer 2: (In this case I agree, these are limitations ... sensible, but limitations nonetheless)

   * Dummy mode can only be applied to a whole workflow.
   * Dummy tasks run locally, so dummy mode does not test communication with remote
     job platforms. However, it is easy to write a live-mode test workflow with
     simple ``sleep 10`` tasks that submit to a remote platform.

.. _workflow-run-modes.simulation:

Simulation Mode
---------------

**Simulation mode** does not run real jobs, and does not generate job

> log files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
log files.  Instead, the scheduler internally simulates task completion to evolve
the workflow.
```

.. _workflow-run-modes:

Workflow Run Modes
------------------

Cylc can run a workflow without running the real jobs, which may be
useful when developing workflows. Tasks 
in :ref:`workflow-run-modes.dummy` and
:ref:`workflow-run-modes.simulation` can help you to understand how different outcomes
and run lengths will affect the workflow.

To start a workflow in one of these modes:

.. code-block:: console

   $ cylc play --mode=dummy <workflow-id>
   $ cylc play --mode=simulation <workflow-id>

.. admonition:: Limitations

>    * Workflow run mode is recorded in the workflow run database. Cylc will not let you
>      *restart* a dummy mode workflow in live mode, or vice versa. Instead,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * A workflow cannot be :term:`restarted <restart>` in a different run mode. Instead,
```

the settings described for simulation mode.
This avoids :term:`job runner` directives that request compute
resources for real workflow tasks, and it allows any workflow configuration to
be run locally in dummy mode.

.. admonition:: Limitations

   * Dummy mode can only be applied to a whole workflow.
   * Dummy tasks run locally, so dummy mode does not test communication with remote
     job platforms. However, it is easy to write a live-mode test workflow with
     simple ``sleep 10`` tasks that submit to a remote platform.

.. _workflow-run-modes.simulation:

Simulation Mode
---------------

**Simulation mode** does not run real jobs, and does not generate job
log files.  Instead, the scheduler internally simulates task completion to evolve
the workflow.

Simulated Run Length
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The default dummy or simulated job run length is 10 seconds. It can be
changed with :cylc:conf:`[runtime][<namespace>][simulation]default run length`.

If :cylc:conf:`[runtime][<namespace>]execution time limit` and
:cylc:conf:`[runtime][<namespace>][simulation]speedup factor` are both set,
run length is computed by dividing the

> :cylc:conf:`[runtime][<namespace>]execution time limit` by
> :cylc:conf:`[runtime][<namespace>][simulation]` speedup factor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
execution time limit by the speedup factor.
```

Simulated Failure
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Tasks always complete all custom outputs, and by default they will succeed.

If you want to test individual workflow pathways, use

> :ref:`skip mode <task-run-modes.skip>`.

Reviewer 3: Sorry, what does this mean?

Author: If you have a case:

```
a:foo? => f
b:bar? => b
```

Simulation mode will always run f & b, but if you want to simulate only emitting one of them then your only option at present is skip mode.

How about

```suggestion
If you want to test emitting only some custom outputs
you can run the workflow in live mode with task run modes
set to :ref:`skip mode <task-run-modes.skip>`.
```

You can set some or all instances of a task to fail using

> :cylc:conf:`[runtime][<namespace>][simulation]fail cycle points`.
> ``fail cycle points`` takes either a list of cycle point strings or "all".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:cylc:conf:`[runtime][<namespace>][simulation]fail cycle points`,
which takes either a list of cycle point strings or "all".
```

.. _workflow-run-modes:

Workflow Run Modes
------------------

> Cylc can run a workflow without running the real jobs, which may be
> long-running and resource-hungry.
> 
> This is useful when developing workflows. Tasks submitted
> using :ref:`workflow-run-modes.dummy` and
> :ref:`workflow-run-modes.simulation` can be used while
> developing workflows to understand how different outcomes
> and run lengths will affect the workflow.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Cylc can run a workflow without running the real jobs, which may be
useful when developing workflows. Tasks submitted
using :ref:`workflow-run-modes.dummy` and
:ref:`workflow-run-modes.simulation` can be used to understand how different outcomes
and run lengths will affect the workflow.
```

> To apply a run mode to a workflow:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To start a workflow in one of these modes:
```

This avoids :term:`job runner` directives that request compute
resources for real workflow tasks, and it allows any workflow configuration to
be run locally in dummy mode.

.. admonition:: Limitations

   * Dummy mode can only be applied to a whole workflow.
   * Dummy tasks run locally, so dummy mode does not test communication with remote
     job platforms. However, it is easy to write a live-mode test workflow with
     simple ``sleep 10`` tasks that submit to a remote platform.

.. _workflow-run-modes.simulation:

Simulation Mode
---------------

**Simulation mode** does not run real jobs, and does not generate job
log files.

Simulated Run Length
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The default dummy or simulated job run length is 10 seconds. It can be
changed with :cylc:conf:`[runtime][<namespace>][simulation]default run length`.

If :cylc:conf:`[runtime][<namespace>]execution time limit` and
:cylc:conf:`[runtime][<namespace>][simulation]speedup factor` are both set,
run length is computed by dividing the
:cylc:conf:`[runtime][<namespace>]execution time limit` by
:cylc:conf:`[runtime][<namespace>][simulation]` speedup factor.

Simulated Failure
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Tasks always complete all custom outputs, by default they succeed.
> 
>    If you want to test individual workflow pathways, use
>    :ref:`skip mode <task-run-modes.skip>`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Tasks always complete all custom outputs, and by default they will succeed.

If you want to test individual workflow pathways, use
:ref:`skip mode <task-run-modes.skip>`.
```
